docs/01-quick_start.md, before:

Quick start
===========

## Base concepts

In most application, there's always a set of workflows defining how to manage your data. It can be imports/exports, 
asynchronous treatments or periodically checking an API... With its life, it may grow, code may duplicate quite quickly.

This bundle aims to provide a framework to build efficient, quick to build, easy to change workflows.

Its main concept is the *process*: it's a set of *tasks* chained together according to the workflow you want
to define. Each *task* has the duty to perform one simple action on each piece of *data* provided.

The most common example is the ETL. It's a kind of application whose main purpose is to
- *Extract* a chunk of data from a source (database, file, API, ...)
- *Transform* this data into something else (modify the values, change the format, compute some statistics, ...)
- *Load* the transformed data into a destination (another database, file, API, ...)

![Basic ETL](basic-etl.png)

## Installation

This bundle requires Symfony 6.3 minimum. You can install it using composer:

```bash
composer require cleverage/process-bundle
```

Remember to add the following line to bundles.php (not required if Symfony Flex is used)

```php
CleverAge\ProcessBundle\CleverAgeProcessBundle::class => ['all' => true],
```

Some tasks and transformers use the main Symfony serializer service. You might need to explicitly enable it, or dependency 
resolution might fail
* https://symfony.com/doc/current/reference/configuration/framework.html#reference-serializer-enabled

## Global configuration

You can use `./bin/console config:dump-reference clever_age_process` to have a summary of current configuration.

Aside from process and transformer configurations, there is the `default_error_strategy` setting that allow you to define
behavior if a task encounter an error. Up to v3.0, the default value was to `skip` iterations with errors. Starting from v3.1, 
the configuration should be defined by the user.

We recommend to use the `stop` configuration (see bellow), and then specify task by task which one can be `skipped`.

Recommended example :
```yaml
clever_age_process:
    default_error_strategy: stop
```

When creating custom tasks and transformers, you can use Symfony automatic registration, but remember there is a few required configurations :
```yaml
services:
    App\Transformer\:
        resource: 'relative/path/to/Transformer/*'
        autowire:      true
        autoconfigure: true
        public:        false
        tags:
            - { name: cleverage.transformer }       # Needed by the process registry to find transformers

    App\Task\:
        resource: 'relative/path/to/Task/*'
        autowire:      true
        autoconfigure: true
        shared: false                               # Important to avoid shared data between task usage
        public: true                                # Needed by the Process Manager to find tasks
```

## Process definition

Most of the work is done through the bundle configuration. 

Under `clever_age_process.configurations` you can add processes, and for each process define a set of `tasks`.
The most basic configuration for a process is:
```yaml
clever_age_process:
    configurations:
        <process_name>:
            tasks: []
```

Then you can add tasks in this array. They consist of a `service`, optionally configured by `options`, and eventually
 chained with others through their `outputs`. Minimal syntax is:
```yaml
<task_name>:
    service: <service_reference>
    options: 
        <option_key_1>: <option_value_1>
        <option_key_2>: <option_value_2>
        <option_key_3>: <option_value_3>
    outputs: [<next_task_name_1>, <next_task_name_2>, <next_task_name_3>]
```

Below you can see a minimal working ETL example. It consist of 3 tasks:
- the first *extract* some data (the [constant output task](./reference/tasks/constant_output_task.md) outputs... a constant value): it's an array with 3 
keys/values
- the second *transform* the given value (the [transformer task](./reference/tasks/transformer_task.md) is one of the most important!): the output is then an 
array with 2 keys/values, created using the value from previous task
- finally, the last will just display the result (it's a cheap *load*, using the [debug task](./reference/tasks/debug_task.md), only for development 
purpose!)

```yaml
clever_age_process:
    configurations:
        project_prefix.process_name:
            tasks:
                extract:
                    service: '@CleverAge\ProcessBundle\Task\ConstantOutputTask'
                    options:
                        output:
                            id: 123
                            firstname: Test1
                            lastname: Test2
                    outputs: [transform]

                transform:
                    service: '@CleverAge\ProcessBundle\Task\TransformerTask'
                    options:
                        transformers:
                            mapping:
                                mapping:
                                    id:
                                        code: '[id]'
                                    slug:
                                        code:
                                            - '[id]'
                                            - '[firstname]'
                                            - '[lastname]'
                                        transformers:
                                            implode:
                                                separator: '-'
                    outputs: [load]

                load:
                    service: '@CleverAge\ProcessBundle\Task\Debug\DebugTask'
```

There is more to know about process configuration. See [the full process configuration reference]().

## Command line usage

Once your process are defined, you want to use them. Some console commands are provided for their manipulation:
- `cleverage:process:list`: gives you a list of all defined process
- `cleverage:process:help <process_code>`: tries to show you what's inside `<process_code>` using a nice charting
- `cleverage:process:execute <process_code_1> [<process_code_2> ...]`: starts one by one `<process_code_1>`, 
`<process_code_2>`, ... , unrolling tasks one by one. Note that you can use verbosity options (`-v`, `-vv`, `-vvvv`) 
to look in depth what's happening.

Applied to previous example, it will show:

```
$ ./bin/console cleverage:process:list
There are 1 process configurations defined :
 - project_prefix.process_name with 3 tasks
```

```
$ ./bin/console cleverage:process:help project_prefix.process_name
Process: 
    project_prefix.process_name

Tasks tree:
    ■ extract
    │ 
    ■ transform
    │ 
    ■ load
```

```
$ ./bin/console cleverage:process:execute project_prefix.process_name
Starting process 'project_prefix.process_name'...
DEBUG from project_prefix.process_name::load
array:2 [
  "id" => 123
  "slug" => "123-Test1-Test2"
]
Process 'project_prefix.process_name' executed successfully
```

## Automation

Once everything is working fine, you may want to automate your processes. The standard way is using the Unix cron jobs:
```
# Every two hours, execute <my_process>
0 */2 * * * ./bin/console cleverage:process:execute <my_process>
```

To check if everything went fine, logs are stored in database:
- `clever_process_history`: logs process started, with `process_code`, `start_date`, `end_date` and `statut`
- `clever_task_history`: logs custom tasks logs (see [logging]()), with `task_code`, `message`, `logged_at` date, `level`, a `reference` and `context`

Commit message:

#148 Update documentation according to Symfony best practices

docs/01-quick_start.md, after:

Quick start
===========

## Base concepts

In most application, there's always a set of workflows defining how to manage your data. It can be imports/exports, 
asynchronous treatments or periodically checking an API... With its life, it may grow, code may duplicate quite quickly.

This bundle aims to provide a framework to build efficient, quick to build, easy to change workflows.

Its main concept is the *process*: it's a set of *tasks* chained together according to the workflow you want
to define. Each *task* has the duty to perform one simple action on each piece of *data* provided.

The most common example is the ETL. It's a kind of application whose main purpose is to
- *Extract* a chunk of data from a source (database, file, API, ...)
- *Transform* this data into something else (modify the values, change the format, compute some statistics, ...)
- *Load* the transformed data into a destination (another database, file, API, ...)

![Basic ETL](basic-etl.png)

## Installation

Make sure Composer is installed globally, as explained in the [installation chapter](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md)
of the Composer documentation.

Open a command console, enter your project directory and install it using composer:

```bash
composer require cleverage/process-bundle
```

Remember to add the following line to config/bundles.php (not required if Symfony Flex is used)

```php
CleverAge\ProcessBundle\CleverAgeProcessBundle::class => ['all' => true],
```

Some tasks and transformers use the main Symfony serializer service. You might need to explicitly enable it, or dependency 
resolution might fail
* https://symfony.com/doc/current/reference/configuration/framework.html#reference-serializer-enabled

## Global configuration

You can use `./bin/console config:dump-reference clever_age_process` to have a summary of current configuration.

Aside from process and transformer configurations, there is the `default_error_strategy` setting that allow you to define
behavior if a task encounter an error. Up to v3.0, the default value was to `skip` iterations with errors. Starting from v3.1, 
the configuration should be defined by the user.

We recommend to use the `stop` configuration (see bellow), and then specify task by task which one can be `skipped`.

Recommended example :
```yaml
clever_age_process:
    default_error_strategy: stop
```

When creating custom tasks and transformers, you can use Symfony automatic registration, but remember there is a few required configurations :
```yaml
services:
    App\Transformer\:
        resource: 'relative/path/to/Transformer/*'
        autowire:      true
        autoconfigure: true
        public:        false
        tags:
            - { name: cleverage.transformer }       # Needed by the process registry to find transformers

    App\Task\:
        resource: 'relative/path/to/Task/*'
        autowire:      true
        autoconfigure: true
        shared: false                               # Important to avoid shared data between task usage
        public: true                                # Needed by the Process Manager to find tasks
```

## Process definition

Most of the work is done through the bundle configuration. 

Under `clever_age_process.configurations` you can add processes, and for each process define a set of `tasks`.
The most basic configuration for a process is:
```yaml
clever_age_process:
    configurations:
        <process_name>:
            tasks: []
```

Then you can add tasks in this array. They consist of a `service`, optionally configured by `options`, and eventually
 chained with others through their `outputs`. Minimal syntax is:
```yaml
<task_name>:
    service: <service_reference>
    options: 
        <option_key_1>: <option_value_1>
        <option_key_2>: <option_value_2>
        <option_key_3>: <option_value_3>
    outputs: [<next_task_name_1>, <next_task_name_2>, <next_task_name_3>]
```

Below you can see a minimal working ETL example. It consist of 3 tasks:
- the first *extract* some data (the [constant output task](reference/tasks/constant_output_task.md) outputs... a constant value): it's an array with 3 
keys/values
- the second *transform* the given value (the [transformer task](reference/tasks/transformer_task.md) is one of the most important!): the output is then an 
array with 2 keys/values, created using the value from previous task
- finally, the last will just display the result (it's a cheap *load*, using the [debug task](reference/tasks/debug_task.md), only for development 
purpose!)

```yaml
clever_age_process:
    configurations:
        project_prefix.process_name:
            tasks:
                extract:
                    service: '@CleverAge\ProcessBundle\Task\ConstantOutputTask'
                    options:
                        output:
                            id: 123
                            firstname: Test1
                            lastname: Test2
                    outputs: [transform]

                transform:
                    service: '@CleverAge\ProcessBundle\Task\TransformerTask'
                    options:
                        transformers:
                            mapping:
                                mapping:
                                    id:
                                        code: '[id]'
                                    slug:
                                        code:
                                            - '[id]'
                                            - '[firstname]'
                                            - '[lastname]'
                                        transformers:
                                            implode:
                                                separator: '-'
                    outputs: [load]

                load:
                    service: '@CleverAge\ProcessBundle\Task\Debug\DebugTask'
```

There is more to know about process configuration. See [the full process configuration reference]().

## Command line usage

Once your process are defined, you want to use them. Some console commands are provided for their manipulation:
- `cleverage:process:list`: gives you a list of all defined process
- `cleverage:process:help <process_code>`: tries to show you what's inside `<process_code>` using a nice charting
- `cleverage:process:execute <process_code_1> [<process_code_2> ...]`: starts one by one `<process_code_1>`, 
`<process_code_2>`, ... , unrolling tasks one by one. Note that you can use verbosity options (`-v`, `-vv`, `-vvvv`) 
to look in depth what's happening.

Applied to previous example, it will show:

```
$ ./bin/console cleverage:process:list
There are 1 process configurations defined :
 - project_prefix.process_name with 3 tasks
```

```
$ ./bin/console cleverage:process:help project_prefix.process_name
Process: 
    project_prefix.process_name

Tasks tree:
    ■ extract
    │ 
    ■ transform
    │ 
    ■ load
```

```
$ ./bin/console cleverage:process:execute project_prefix.process_name
Starting process 'project_prefix.process_name'...
DEBUG from project_prefix.process_name::load
array:2 [
  "id" => 123
  "slug" => "123-Test1-Test2"
]
Process 'project_prefix.process_name' executed successfully
```

## Automation

Once everything is working fine, you may want to automate your processes. The standard way is using the Unix cron jobs:
```
# Every two hours, execute <my_process>
0 */2 * * * ./bin/console cleverage:process:execute <my_process>
```

To check if everything went fine, logs are stored in database:
- `clever_process_history`: logs process started, with `process_code`, `start_date`, `end_date` and `statut`
- `clever_task_history`: logs custom tasks logs (see [logging]), with `task_code`, `message`, `logged_at` date, `level`, a `reference` and `context`
